dbt Cloud and Starburst Galaxy (#3098)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-starburst-trino.md

---
title: "Connect Starburst/Trino"
description: "Configure Starburst/Trino connection."
sidebar_label: "Connect Starburst/Trino"
---

> The required fields for setting up a connection with Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy, and Trino cluster are:  

Reviewer: NOTE: the comment suggestion conincides with the one on the table itself
summary of below suggestion:

1. move the caveats out of the table and into [admonition blocks
](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions)
2. drop the long, repetitive "your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy or Trino cluster" into just "your cluster" and note it once before the table and callouts
3. I rephrased "It's only used for the initial connection to your cluster" to "Instead, they serve as the default location for where tables and views are materialized. This default can be modified later on from within your dbt project."

```suggestion
the usage of the word cluster can pertain to pertain to all three of the products listed above unless otherwise specified.

:::caution
When connecting to a Starburst Enterprise cluster with built-in access controls enabled, you will not be able to provide the role as a suffix to the username, so the default role for the provided username will be used instead.
:::

:::info
**Schema & Catalog Selection**
When selecting the `database`/`catalog` and the `schema` please note that:
1. the user has both read and write access to both the provided database and schema, and
2. the entered selection does not limit you only be able to query the given catalog. Instead, they serve as the default location for where tables and views are materialized. This default can be modified later on from within your dbt project.
:::
```
```

Author: tysm! appreciate your 👀 on this. incorporated this in a slightly diff way

> | Field | Description | Examples |
> | --- | --- | --- |
> | **Host** | The hostname of your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy, or Trino cluster. Don't include the HTTP protocol. | `mycluster.mydomain.com` |
> | **Port** | The port to connect to for your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy or Trino cluster. By default, it's 443 for TLS enabled clusters. | `443` |
> | **User** | The username (of the account) to log in to your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy, or Trino cluster. The user must have permissions to create and drop tables. When connecting to Starburst Galaxy clusters, you must include the role of the user as a suffix to the username.<br/><br/>When connecting to a Starburst Enterprise cluster with built-in access controls enabled, you will not be able to provide the role as a suffix to the username, so the default role for the provided username will be used instead. | Format for Starburst Enterprise or Trino: <br/> <ul><li>`user.name`</li><li>`user.name@mydomain.com`</li></ul><br/>Format for Starburst Galaxy:<br/> <ul><li>`user.name@mydomain.com/role`</li></ul> |
> | **Password** | The user's password. |   |
> | **Database** | The name of a catalog in your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy, or Trino cluster. The user must have read/write access to this catalog. The selection you make doesn't limit the data you can access through dbt to the specified catalog in Starburst/Trino. It's only used for the initial connection to your cluster. | `my_postgres_catalog` |
> | **Schema** | The name of a schema in your Starburst Enterprise, Starburst Galaxy, or Trino cluster that exists within the specified catalog. The user must have read/write access to this schema. The selection you make doesn't limit the data you can access through dbt to the specified schema in Starburst/Trino. It's only used for the initial connection to your cluster. | `my_schema` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Field | Description | Examples |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Host** | The hostname of your cluster. Don't include the HTTP protocol prefix (e.g. `https://`). | `mycluster.mydomain.com` |
| **Port** | The port to connect cluster. By default, it's 443 for TLS enabled clusters. | `443` |
| **User** | The username (of the account) to log in to your cluster. When connecting to Starburst Galaxy clusters, you must include the role of the user as a suffix to the username.<br/><br/> | Format for Starburst Enterprise or Trino: <br/> <ul><li>`user.name`</li><li>`user.name@mydomain.com`</li></ul><br/>Format for Starburst Galaxy:<br/> <ul><li>`user.name@mydomain.com/role`</li></ul> |
| **Password** | The user's password. |   |
| **Database** | The name of a catalog in your cluster. | `my_postgres_catalog` |
| **Schema** | The name of a schema in your cluster that exists within the specified catalog.  | `my_schema` |
```
